I'm Wesley Morris and this is
Cannonball. Today we're going to play a
little game. Does Timothy Shalomé go
above the fold?
I spend an embarrassing amount of time
thinking about movie stars. Movie stars,
you know what they are. They're
basically actors who we and our wallets
have fallen in love with. I have fallen
in love with my fair share. But I also I
love to study them because they can tell
us a lot about who we think we are and
how maybe we'd like to be. Ever since we
started the show, I have wanted to
invite my friend Bill Simmons on to talk
about this idea of the movie star, like
what it takes to make one, whether we
still even have them. It's something he
and I have been talking about pretty
much as long as we've known each other.
And not infrequently, Robert Redford
would be invoked as the definition of a
movie star. for better and for worse
really, but mostly for better cuz he was
good at his job. I mean, everybody's
mom, including mine, loved this man. She
paid good money to see him act, but I
have no doubt she'd have paid with a
piece of her heart, too, which is kind
of how you know he was a star. He could
make a married woman feel single. And
then last month, Robert Redford died.
So, Bill and I were like, I think now is
the time. Let's finally have another
round of this conversation, but on my
show. Here's my conversation with Bill.
Bill, welcome to Cannonball. I can't
believe you're here. It's great to be
here. I We've known each other for
almost 15 years. And I think we have
talked about the concept of movie
stardom more than any other topic. And
Redford's the perfect guy to do this
because we don't have Redfords anymore.
They're ju they just don't exist.
>> They don't exist. But we'll come back to
that. I want to start by asking some
condolence questions. First of all,
how's your mother's heart doing?
>> It's tough. My dad actually took this
harder because Jeremiah Johnson's his
favorite movie. And Redford was probably
his favorite actor had probably been in
the most things that he liked. So, he he
took this one hard. But my mom was
upset, too. And and she had the the way
we Were Gatsby kind of side. That's
where
>> Gatsby. Interesting.
>> Oh, yeah. That whole era. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean,
>> they're put in the park before my time.
I mean, because my mom, I know, would
definitely have been
really beside herself and just sort of
caught up in all her feelings. I don't
know about my dad's relationship to
River. I'm sure he thought he was cool.
Um, but my mother defin I mean, I
partially know who this man is because
my mother loved him and she'd watch him
in anything, which is kind of how you
know somebody's a star,
>> right? My mom really liked him, but as
you know with my mom, she likes that
slightly seedy. She
>> wants something side. Gear was her guy.
>> Yeah. Drunk Newman.
>> Get right. Gear or Newman and Slapshot.
Gear was like Redford after three drinks
with maybe some sort of police record in
the background. Um but uh but yeah, I I
mean fundamentally we just don't have
Redfords anymore. and uh when just he's
one of those things his career was so
long and he did so many cool things that
you kind of forget how many good movies
he made.
>> I didn't discover him until I mean he
was an ambient presence. I think I might
have seen him first
probably at the 86 Academy Awards not
even as himself but just in clips for
out of Africa which is you know that was
the big best picture winner that that
year. The winner is out of Africa.
>> He's the leading man in this in this
love story between him and Merrill
Street.
>> Doesn't it matter to you that I am
another man's wife?
>> No. What matters to me is that you tried
so hard.
>> It's not a very good movie.
>> It does not. But that's the first time I
saw him and I remember thinking,
I don't know who this movie is taking
all these Color Purple Oscars, but
this blonde, blue-eyed white man is
definitely speaking to like 10year-old,
9-year-old me um in these clips. So,
let's just think about like I just want
to think about like there like three
thinking about like three movies that
kind of
like epitomize an aspect of the thing
that made him him. I don't know if you
have three. Um I do.
>> If you can be if you can reduce this
career to three films, but I mean what
what is one that you like what's a great
for example for Redford?
>> Well, you have to start with Sundance.
You've never met a pair like Butch and
Sundance.
>> Cuz Sundance vaults him to a different
level. It's one of the most famous
biggest movies of the 70s. It pulls him
up. After that movie, he is now on a
different plane.
>> And it's a it's just a charisma role.
Like he's super [__] handsome in that
movie. He really is. Like he he looks
great. Newman looks great. He looks
great. You believe that they're friends.
They have this banter back and forth
that
>> the thing to remember when
>> don't tell me how to rob a bank. I know
how to rob a bank.
>> You know, it almost feels like the first
modern buddy cop movie even though
they're not cops. They're the bad guys.
But the way they interact, I think has
been stolen for the next 55 years. And
he's just a movie star. It's like just
we're getting to hang out with two movie
stars. And think about how many movies
have tried to rip that off ever since.
Like even Oceans 11, it's like, "Let's
just get some famous, good-looking movie
stars together and we'll give them stuff
to do." It all starts with that movie,
which is still awesome. It's a great
rewatch even now.
>> It's funny because he and Newman are so
different. They're differently
beautiful. And um you know Newman's a
decade older and in many ways there's a
kind of protege
mentor relationship happening the two
times you know the first two times they
work together in this movie and then and
then the sting
>> and you know you notice that Newman
twinkles and Redford shines right?
>> Oh that's a good way to put it. So
Newman had the twinkle in his eye.
Newman was funnier. Lumman was more
charismatic and Redford had that kind of
smoldering.
If we if we're actually have to follow
somebody in battle for some reason, I
might be following this guy
>> and not like the cool guy. I think it's
really unusual for two movie stars to
cook like that. It certainly doesn't
happen very often.
>> Well, that ought to do it.
>> Think there's enough dynamite there,
Butch.
>> Redford's funny in that movie. Redford's
not funny. No,
>> he doesn't really ever play characters
that have a sense of humor. He's always
like the straight man or the counter
puncher, but I think he's funny. And
Butch.
>> Do you have another movie that you think
is like um
something that just like epitomizes some
aspect of of of Redford as as both a
star and as the the star that he was?
>> For me, it's three. We mentioned Butch
and Sundance.
>> Uh All the President's Men. Sure.
>> How much can you tell me about Deep
Throat?
>> How much do you need to know?
>> You trust him?
>> Yeah.
>> It's funny. I don't think is I know it's
like it won the Oscar for best writing.
But I think in the wrong hands that's a
pretty forgettable character because
he's plays it close to the vest. He's
doing a lot of like kind of reading his
surroundings. He's in a garage with Deep
Throat. Supposedly, he's got a lawyer
with $25,000 in a brown paper bag.
>> They follow the money.
[Music]
>> What do you mean?
>> Where?
>> Like, those scenes shouldn't be as good
as they are. Everything he's doing with
his eyes and his body, and you believe
that he's like a fledgling reporter,
that he's not quite made it yet, that
he's a little inexperienced, but you
also believe that he can save the day.
He's trying to play off Hoffman. He's
playing off all these great actors and I
just think I think those parts don't get
enough credit for how hard they are.
>> You can talk about what your
relationship is with this movie, but
I've heard you talk about it before, but
just in terms of like do you identify
with Dustin Hoffman who plays Carl
Bernstein or Robert Redford is Woodward?
And I just remember thinking,
do I believe that this guy is a
journalist?
Well, you know, I don't remember when I
first started watching that movie, but
my first big Watergate phase was in
college, and that's when ever since
then, I've been watching it ever since.
I was always on the on the Redford side
of that movie because of the scene,
which is one of the better scenes of his
career when he's putting the copy in and
then Hoffman's coming over and grabbing
it and taking it and then Redford
finally confronts him and he's like,
"Here, here's all my work.
>> You're going to do it. do it right. Here
are my notes. If you're going to hype
it, hype it with the facts. I don't mind
what you did. I mind the way you did it.
>> I don't mind what you did. I just don't
like how you did it.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> And just like gave him the gave him the
skull. And I was like, I'm in on this
guy. If they if I have to pick, I'm in
with him. So, that would be two. And
then the natural would be my third one.
>> Don't you remember signing a contract?
>> Yeah, I remember signing a contract to
play ball, not to be put to sleep by
some two bit Carney hypnotist. I won't
do that.
>> It's got one of the best endings. He
hits a home run that makes the lights
explode and then has has a catch with
his bastard son in a cornfield.
>> That home run at the end of that movie
is one of the great ridiculous endings.
>> The best sports movie.
>> I want to sit with this for a second.
>> Yeah,
>> that scene really speaks to like these
iconic aspects of of Redford or like
these characteristic traits, right? Some
of the things that are important to
understanding what kind of movie star he
was have a lot to do with these
principles that he embodied. It's funny
cuz some of the things that that make
him such a great star are that he never
wavered in embodying those things.
Integrity, decency, honor, uh morality,
justice. I mean, he was uncorruptible.
He like his characters were
incorruptible. Um they were
>> I was going to say moral moral compass.
>> Yeah. Yeah,
>> his characters always had some sort of
compass that you trusted and he never
played characters that didn't have the
compass that I can think of.
>> So my I'm gonna just I'll I'll go
through three things really fast.
>> I would say Three Days of the Condor is
a movie that I would definitely offer as
>> the epitome of what a movie star does.
Redford's own good taste in a in
scripts, directors, and then all the
things. He's working with Sydney Pollock
on this movie. This is 1975. This is Joe
Turner.
>> Identification.
>> My name is Turner. I work for you. Now
listen,
>> identify yourself.
>> What is your designation?
>> Uh, Condor.
>> This movie is a big hit. And I can't
really describe what it's about, but
basically Redford is a is a CIA
bookworm.
>> Will you guys bring me in, please? I'm
not a field agent. I just read books.
>> Who finds out that the team he'd been
working on has all been assassinated and
they missed one person. Him. And
>> well he Wesley he he saw something he
shouldn't have seen.
>> Welcome to 1970s movie making the the
paranoia.
>> That's the premise of every every movie
from 1974 to 77.
>> But the opening five minutes are what I
would describe as like pure movie star
gold which you know do do you remember
what the opening credit sequence is when
like we get introduced to him? He's on a
bike.
>> Yeah.
>> He's biking to work in like the coolest
outfit and I'm just like I will spend a
whole movie with this guy. I don't know
what's going to happen, but he's so
charming. I'll do it. But this amazing
thing happens. And I'm just going to do
a little roleplaying with you right now.
>> And I just want you to sit with me for a
second and just uh I want you to just be
a person. Let's just say you're out in
the world. You're you're buying some ski
equipment and you're going on a trip.
You're going to go meet your man up in
Vermont for the weekend,
>> right?
>> And you're just like you're shopping.
You're doing your thing. You just paid
and you're getting into the car which is
parked on a very obvious street in broad
daylight and this very handsome man
comes up to you and he's like, "Hey,
>> Kathy,
>> I recognize you. Nice to see you again."
>> And you're like, "Oh, I'm sorry. I don't
recognize you. What's uh how can I Oh my
god, what are you doing?" And you're you
this man is putting a gun in your waist.
And it's telling you to get in the car.
Get in the car right now. And you get in
the car and he drives just you wind up
taking him back to your place and he
roughs you up a little bit.
>> What are you, A CLOWN?
>> I'M SCARED.
>> SO AM I.
>> WHAT ARE YOU SCARED FOR? YOU'VE GOT THE
GUN.
>> YES.
>> And
he wants to know if you're going to help
him figure out what the hell happened to
his team and how are you going to do it.
The question is, do you call the cops or
do you spend your weekend that you had
planned to ski up in Vermont with your
actual man? Do you throw all that out
the window to help Robert Redford defeat
the CIA?
>> Well, that's the answer. But then I
would add this caveat, too. I'm going to
fall in love.
>> Yes, we are going to. And also, if
there's an offer to do it at the hour
mark,
>> Yeah. Do you take it?
>> Yeah. Hey, we spent 10 hours together
and you had a gun on me. But what are
you doing later?
>> Um, also,
>> should we see a movie? Yeah, but that's
the kind of thing when you're when
you're handsome and charismatic, you can
get away with it.
>> This is Fade Dunaway, the another of the
70s biggest stars
>> in Three Days of the Condor. And I just
want to tell you what kind of
environment we are dealing with with
Robert Redford's morality. At some
point,
>> she says, you know, you roughed me up.
>> Have I roughed you up?
>> Yes. What are you doing in my house?
Going through my raped.
>> And he's like, I'm sorry. Did I rape
you? And she goes,
>> "The night is young.
>> The night is young."
This is before they do it.
>> Wow.
>> And the crazy thing about that line is
he she says that and he is instantly
wounded. Like, oh my god. This is what
you This is the thing. This situation
has led me to make a woman think that
I'd be capable of something like that. I
need to sit down next to her and let her
know that I have I am not that man.
>> You don't believe anything I've said, do
you?
>> I believe you're in trouble.
>> That movie is fascinating for all kinds
of reasons, but it's such a great use of
him. I think part of what that movie is
doing for me is just giving you a movie
star as a movie star. It is saying, you
know, this movie could be about
anything, but the reason I paid to come
is just to like spend time with this
person that I like to see. This is a
movie.
>> And as you know, I wish more actors just
made movies like this.
>> It doesn't work anymore. It doesn't
happen.
>> Yeah. Will Smith an Enemy of the State.
Just like, uhoh, somebody switched my
wallet. Oh, now now I got I'm going to
be killed.
>> But if memory serves, that movie is
missing a Will Smith gets to the gets to
the office on a bicycle moment. Right.
>> Yeah. Right. What you need is just time
alone with the star for a minute just
before the plot kicks in. And he's such
a wonderful co-orker in that movie until
everybody gets assassinated. Um he's
funny with his co-workers.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh I I love that as a great as a for
example for him and what a movie star
can do. The other thing I would say I
would spend some time with The Natural
too. The Natural is great cuz it is a
movie. It's like a classic Hollywood
drama in a lot of ways. It's doing
things that you will hire a movie star
to do. It's entirely built around him.
It doesn't work without him. And then I
would I would cuz I I like the idea of
like choosing movie stars, bad movies,
to prove that they're still stars. And
so I would also pick a decent proposal.
>> Um, thank you. Um, I was waiting. I knew
I left this one for you cuz I knew you
would bring it up
>> because we both love this movie. Suppose
I were to offer you $1 million
>> for one night with your wife.
>> This is a movie about two people who are
desperate for money.
>> Yeah.
>> And in order to get their cash rate,
try to bet it all in Vegas and wind up
running into this guy. I'm going to get
the exact plot details wrong, but
basically they come across this
millionaire who's like, "You know what
I'd like to do? I'll uh I'll make your
dreams come true if you in exchange for
this million dollars, let me have your
wife, who's played by Demar." Woody
Harelson is the husband.
>> Big dice roll scene though. She's
rolling the dice for him and he's
winning money. That's how that's how
it's on. Woody's not even in there. He's
at like poker table.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. It is quite a
terrible movie.
where it doesn't matter
>> terribly great
>> how bad it is because there's a
greatness driving it anyway. And part of
the greatness is the nerve of it. Right?
This is a movie that is asking the
question,
would you accept
a million dollars for a night? Would you
prostitute yourself to Robert Redford
uh for a million dollars? I mean it
doesn't
>> I mean I wouldn't
>> but would you not would you really not
Bill?
>> I mean this is a place where you could
just be you could just be real. This is
Well, the thing is though with this
movie, this was such an unusual choice
for him
>> and I think they overpaid him as part of
it, but it was like, whoa, he's going to
be in this. He never does stuff like
this. And at that point, Sundance was
going and
>> it was almost like fascinating to go to
the theater just to see how they would
handle the Redford piece of
>> But what is the thing that you think
that he would never do this movie?
>> Right. Right. But what about like just
the premise alone or the fact that he's
the guy making this a like I mean I'm
going to say
>> let's let's be honest though this is one
of the reasons the movie didn't totally
work even though we both love it. This
should have been Richard Gear.
>> This is a Richard Gear part
>> when he was all about paying paying
women for for for whatever time he
wanted to spend with them.
>> Yeah cuz you and I both we both love the
Richard Gear who's in internal affairs.
We like the the dirty Richard Gear like
taking a phone call while he's getting
ridden by somebody's sister.
>> Um and and that's what this movie
Redford I just never never bought that
he was pervy enough to be the guy.
>> No. No. It's just a fascinating use of a
person who whose entire stardom is the
opposite of this character, right? And
so it tricks you into believing in some
way.
>> Yeah. that the moral energies are
actually not with Deme Moore and Woody
Harelson whose lives get turned upside
down by this decision and they're
actually with the the sleas bag Redford
who makes the offer.
>> Well, the irony of that movie is she
should have stayed with Redford.
They were a better couple. That was the
life she should have had. Like you're
watching it like just [__] get rid of
Woody. Get him out of there.
>> Yeah. No, I mean it's really really
really really true. I think he was I
talked about this on my podcast about
him just how how smartly he picked roles
with the things he could and couldn't
do.
>> Yes.
>> Um Yes.
>> Which I think he's usually going to be
charming guy, hero,
>> uh somebody trying to topple the system.
>> There were certain touch points that he
was going to do. I thought it was really
interesting that he didn't want to be in
the verdict because he thought the guy
was too much of a loser
>> and was trying to make trying to make
them rewrite it, make him less of a
loser. And they're like, "The guy is a
loser. That's the whole point of the
movie." He's like, "Well, I'm out. I
can't do it." And this was a big thing
for him. He's like, "I'm a movie star. I
play winners. I play heroes. That's what
I do." But I mean, the thing about
Redford that's fascinating to me is that
he came around at the exact right
moment. I think part of his appeal, and
I don't know how you feel about this,
but I think some of the appeal is that
he arrives as a star at the beginning of
the Nixon era. And that whole period
between Watergate, the war, the collapse
of the civil rights movement, there's
just all kinds of social and political
unrest. The president just doesn't seem
right in some way. And eventually we'd
learn how wrong he was.
>> I don't know. I still like him.
>> That's a different show, Bill.
>> That was a joke.
>> Yeah, you're you're kidding. But I think
there's something part of the appeal of
him was that he he seemed presidential,
right?
>> Yeah.
>> He benefited from an entire history of a
sort of blonde, blue-eyed iconography
that made him seem like he could do
anything. And at a moment in which the
country has been falling apart for for 8
years,
here's this guy who just is so calm and
levelheaded, doesn't lose it, and is
really on the side of all the people
that in the Nixon administration's case,
the Nixon administration wants to crush,
right? the the narratives are aligned
with with you know what will become what
we would what we would we would learn
were Redford's priorities but I don't
know he just was the perfect star for
that period to me well I like this
thought of like putting him in context
with the other great people from that
decade because it was such a great
decade for movie stars he's him and
Warren Batty were probably could have
switched roles in in in a few of the
movies right the difference is Warren
Batty always had that horny look to him,
right? Everyone was fair game at all
times at the Warren Batty movie and he
was just had there was a general
horniness. Like the difference is
Redford would would kiss his co-star
probably not go for the tongue on the
kiss.
>> No.
>> Right. Just traditional respectful kiss.
>> That mouth stays closed.
>> Warren B, that tongue's coming out. He's
like, I got to test out this actress.
See what's going on here. and he was
just like he was the seedier version of
Redford and you know kind of like a
blend of Newman and Redford in some
ways.
>> It's it's interesting that like for as
sexy as Batty wanted to be in the movies
and was um Redford I mean really he was
paired with women but it was more about
a like a like a like a them sharing the
frame together more than it was you
actually watching him go go to sleep
with somebody.
>> Yeah. It was an arrangement,
>> right?
>> Yeah. But but Warren Batty couldn't have
been Jeremiah Johnson in a million
years. And I'm not sure he could have
been Sundance either.
>> Yeah. I mean, like, well, here's here's
who would have been around him during
this period. Robert Dairo, Al Pacino.
>> Daener's young though, but Dairo and
Pacino are a little younger. Like
Nicholson is really, I think, more of a
peer, right? Nicholson McQueen,
>> Jack Nicholson, Steve McQueen, John
Voit.
>> Yeah, John Voit.
>> Bert Reynolds.
>> Yeah. I mean that
>> alpha
>> Reynolds way more alpha than Red like
Red's not going to be in Deliverance
>> every No. Well,
>> no. He's not doing it. He's not doing
that.
>> You think the material the material
would have been too dark for him.
>> He wouldn't have done it. It's too dark.
>> I do think that like the thing that that
Redford He benefited from the era. He
benefited from being like the only wa
the only identifiable
like textbook definition of a wasp wasp
the movie had to offer in terms of men.
Right. Nobody.
>> What What actor like maybe John Voit,
but I don't even know if John Voit could
could have done it.
>> No. And I don't think he doesn't John
Voit looks like he comes from somewhere.
Right.
>> Right. Like he's like he's actually his
background was a little rougher than
maybe he's letting on.
>> Right. Redford looks like he could have
come from anywhere in the United States.
Really? Just
>> How many people could have been Gatsby?
Because that's a fun game because I
think it's only three in the last 50
plus years. Well, one of one of the
people I would I would offer played
Gatsby.
>> Yeah. So, there's two.
>> Uh Leonardo DiCaprio played Gatsby.
>> There's one more, I think.
>> Is it the obvious person?
>> I think it's Pit. I think those
>> That's the obvious person. Yes. Okay.
Those are your
>> We move toward like could Clooney have
been Great Gatsby? I'm not buying it.
>> No, because you kind of the thing about
Gatsby and the genius of the book is
you find out where Gatsby is from. So he
has to be persuasively from San
Francisco, but also from some other
place that you never really you would
never know unless you know Nick Carowway
was your friend whispering in your ear.
So I think the thing that you benefit
from
is just a kind of ambiguity because you
know it's funny he's not an everyman
but he is like someone that people would
look up to and aspire. I mean you said
it yourself you'd follow him into
battle,
>> right? Yeah. Um he does have these
leadership qualities that are really
interesting.
>> I would also trust him with my wife or
girlfriend in a movie.
>> Interesting.
>> Whereas Warren Batty I'm not you're not
getting along for three minutes. No way.
Like there's certain ones whereas
Redford had like there was always that
honorable sense to him. Do you think
part of the problem in the 80s and 90s
is that he started directing and we
didn't even talk about that like he's a
really good director.
>> Yes. Yes. If you just give any director,
Ordinary People, River Runs Through It,
and Quiz Show,
>> and you're like, "These are the three
best movies director X made," you'd be
like, "It's a pretty good director."
>> That's a pretty good director. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Yes. And you know, it's worth saying
that like the the kind of movies that he
both directed and
starred in were not movies, you know,
it's just like a class of movie that no
longer exists.
>> Do you think he should have played the
dad in ordinary people instead of Donald
Sutherland? Great question. I don't
think it I don't think he would have I
don't know. It's because if he wound up
directing himself and I don't think it
really I don't think maybe he should
have but he wound you know eventually he
starts I maybe I think maybe the the
horse whisper is the first one that he
stars in that he directs.
>> Well as you know I don't know how
anybody directs a movie and also acts in
it. I think that's [__] crazy. It's
like an NBA player coaching a playoff
game and being the best player in the
team. like Bill Russell did that in
1969, but like doing it now and like
having the timeouts and then going like
it's just I don't know how anyone would
do that.
>> I was really struck by a particular
aspect of his death which is you know I
read the newspaper every day read the
New York Times in print. Um I look at
other newspapers digitally but the one
that I feel with my two hands every day
is is the New York Times. I live in New
York City and I was surprised to see not
surprised I wasn't surprised at all. It
felt right his the like his obituary was
on on the front page and above the fold.
It begins above the fold.
>> Wow.
>> And I don't know if you remember this,
but I mean you remember because we've
come back to it over the years, but this
game started What I don't know if you
remember is when we started doing it. um
who gets a front page death and where
does it go? I'm going to reduce this
game to above the fold and it started
the day that Prince died and we're like
that's an above the fold death.
>> Yeah.
>> But I'm curious now like who among us
like I mean what is it well first of all
like what would it be about Redford that
would that would make him one of these
like extra extra deaths? So Redford,
Newman, Nicholson,
I think those three have endured. I
don't think Reynolds did in the same
way. Even though in the 70s it felt like
he was neck andneck with those guys for
a couple years.
>> Clinton would no question. No question.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Uh Warren Batty, I think. Yes.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah, I do.
>> Interesting. Interesting.
>> He's right on the fringe, though. It's a
good argument. Like if he was below the
fold, I wouldn't be shocked. But I I
think if it's a slower news day, you're
putting him over.
>> If it's a slow news day, you're
definitely putting him over.
>> Merryill Streep is just the entire
paper.
>> There's just no other stories in the
front page.
>> All right. Wait, I've got a little I've
got a little New York Times mug here.
I'm just going to pull some names out.
>> Mel Street definitely the whole paper. I
mean,
>> yeah, just that's it. There's no sports,
weather, anything.
>> I mean, we'll deal with we'll deal with
that when it's time. But I mean, I'm
curious. I'd be I really want to talk
about that, but I'm just gonna Oh,
here's one.
Barbara Stryand.
>> Yeah, above the fold.
>> I'm not putting that out there. I just
want it known. My queen is going to live
forever. Above the fold. Yes.
>> She was Taylor Swift for 10 years.
Everyone's like, "This Taylor Swift
thing, it's never happened before." It's
like, "It happened."
>> And I'm sorry. Talk about eras.
>> Yeah.
>> The hair had eras. Here we go. Leonardo
DiCaprio.
>> Yeah. Well, because it would be
surprising, too, because he's younger.
>> Yeah, but
>> right now, but yeah, at the end of his
career, 100%.
>> Let's just pretend everybody's like a
hundred years old.
>> Okay, great.
>> Um,
>> I'm glad we're going to be around.
>> Well, we'll be around. So,
>> Tom Cruz, come on. These are all easy.
>> I'm just I'm picking out what's But you
know, sometimes Okay, here we go. You
ready? Yeah.
>> Michael B. Jordan.
>> He is not above the fold caliber yet,
but but I have faith. I'll buy your
above the fold stock.
>> I'm with you. I mean, I don't even know.
You know, there's a rail that runs at
the bottom of the paper. Is he going in
the rail box, right? Like, he's probably
a, you know, come to A12, come to A16 to
read about Michael B. Jordan's life.
>> Yeah, I'm I'm betting on his next 10
years. I think Sinners was important for
him.
>> I really thought he was great in it.
>> The question is what happens now?
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
>> Well, right now he doesn't have it,
>> right? I mean, he needs But this is the
thing because Bill
I I feel a little nuts for offering
this, but he is I mean, he's got real
Redford energy to me, but what he
doesn't have is a Butch and Sundance. He
doesn't have a sting.
>> They don't make those movies anymore,
though. like he tried a couple times, a
couple different versions of it. He
needs, you know, like I think there's a
great sports movie he could have made
that he hasn't made yet. Uh he tried to
make the legal movie, it didn't happen.
Uh I'm saying Beyond Creed, like some
sort of like he's a
>> basketball player at the end of his
career, one of those kind of movies, or
he's,
>> you know, football quarterback,
something somebody near the end of their
career.
>> You're identifying a really important
aspect of Redford. You've said it, but
now I want to sort of like put a frame
around it, which is like the end of the
career part. Like so many of these roles
that Redford had, he was probably he was
definitely too old for them. Well, this
was a Redford thing where he was a
little too old for the part, which is
something that did not stop him multiple
times, including most famously in the
natural when the first 15 minutes of the
movie he's supposed to be 18 years old,
but he's like 47 in real life. He didn't
care. He's like, "I'm handsome. I'll get
away with it.
>> Definitely too old. But something about
like a real star definition is do we
care that this person is too old?
>> I I mean I care with Cruz. I thought he
was too old for The Last Mission
Impossible. I thought it it it took me
out of the movie.
>> I just thought he's too I thought he
looked too old and was trying too hard
to make it seem like he wasn't in his
mid60s.
>> So, I mean, what is a good solve for
this? to just like
>> make movies where you're playing a guy
in your mid60s.
How about that idea?
>> But wait, is there there's no world in
which 60-year-old Ethan Hunt is just
refusing to like let it go?
>> Cruz is like 64. He's
>> Yeah. Or 63. I think he's 63. But I'm
saying there's no world jumping off
helicopters and doing that [__] anymore.
You're just not.
>> But I think the whole point is that he
thinks he can.
>> Fine. I'm not in. No thanks.
Thanks for the run.
>> Pedro Pascal.
>> No way.
>> Come on. I mean, I'm picking out what's
in the in the cup. But I mean, it's
interesting because I think part of the
Pedro Pascal question is again, it's
it's Michael B. Jordan related, which is
like what what are the parts? Like what
are the roles that this guy is going to
get that are going to make you
that are gonna define the culture,
change the way we think of of an of a of
an art form? And I don't know, you need
real great parts for that.
>> It's too old. It would have happened
already.
>> All right. Brad Pitt.
>> Yeah. I think I think the last two big
movies he had pushed him over.
>> He's above the fold or below the fold?
>> I do. Plus the Brelina relationship. I
think he's above the fold. Oh. public
life. The public life
>> is so famous.
>> A tabloid figure. Yes. Yes. And is it
really, you know, defines modern fame in
some Yeah. I mean, that's fair.
>> Also, every few years he's had a monster
movie. Like monster going back to the
'9s,
>> which is not true for Redford. I mean,
>> not true for Redford. No, but we left
out one thing. It's It's
slightly mean to talk about, but Redford
as he aged because he was in the sun so
much, he just didn't have the same looks
after a while.
>> No, that's true.
>> From a look standpoint, he probably
peaked mid 80s or not peaked, but that
was kind of the last run. And then
>> mid9 mid90s,
>> but I think when he got older, he really
did look old.
>> Yeah.
>> And Brad Pitt's in his 60s in F1, and
you have no [__] idea how old he is.
He looks like he could be like 40. But I
think that there's something to the
honesty
>> of of Redford letting letting time tell
its story.
>> But he seemed the exact age he was. So
if you put Redford in his early mid60s
in F1
>> I just don't think people are buying it
because they have been like there's no
way this guy's a race car driver. He's
in his 60s.
>> That's a great point. But then he's not
doing F1. He's doing like he's doing all
is lost where he's much older than than
60s.
>> But like that is a great use of letting
time tell your story on your face for
you.
>> Yes.
>> Um and it really works for him in that
movie. Okay, here's this is going to be
deep. Bill ready.
>> Yeah.
>> Julia Roberts.
>> Oh, definitely over the fold.
>> Over the fold. Speak
>> America's sweetheart.
>> All right. Also a mold, right? like like
a a mold that that got broken, but
nobody told these executives that it
broke.
>> They tried to duplicate her for 20
years.
>> They're still trying.
It's crazy.
>> They duplicated her with with people
that I like. Like, I love Amanda Pete,
but she was never able to.
She's not Julia Roberts. It's just not
It's It's Why are we trying? I love
Amanda Pete, too. Um, Shirley Mlan,
>> I think that's below. I think she's lost
some of her some of her juice just as as
everyone's gotten older.
>> It's interesting he didn't have Shalamé.
>> I mean, he might be in here. Uh, all
right. We'll get to we'll get to
Shalomé. I know he's in here.
>> Oh, Denzel's the whole paper.
>> Denzel him and Meryill Streep are the
paper.
>> Oh, ha. Perfect Bill. Perfect bill.
>> Yeah. and Murphy.
>> Oh, you're thinking. You are thinking.
>> He is for me.
>> I do wonder if you're under 30, do you
care as much?
>> Um, great question. Yes, you do. I mean,
this is one of those occasions where the
obituary makes you care, right? This is
one of those things where the minute he
dies, the memories change. It's a really
>> No, you know what? He is cuz the the
especially like as a black actor and
comedian during a time when we didn't
have any black actors or comedians in a
mainstream anything
>> he has to be
>> for for 10 years.
>> Yeah. You know, I mean, it went Sydney
Puier, this kind of like lull in the
1970s. Eddie Murphy, right? Eddie Murphy
changes everything for better and for
worse for black actors in Hollywood in
terms of both what they could do,
proving that people would pay money to
see us do anything um over and over and
over again. Um, and also didn't uh
didn't change who he was in order to
make that money. He was always fully
him. He was a classic movie star. He was
going to be him
>> and, you know, a bunch of other people
that he would, you know, impersonate in
these movies over and over again.
>> That should be my next Cannonball
appearance is uh just Eddie Murphy in
the 80s. Just us breaking it down.
>> Oh my god. Don't make me cry.
>> So many good YouTube clips from that
era. Um, even like him going on Johnny
Carson and
>> some of the weird societal [__] that's
in some of those interviews where he's
like, "What are you going to do with all
your money? You're making so much
money." Like the inference being like,
"You're definitely going to blow this.
Let me help you." And it's
>> Yeah. And his answers to those questions
are are amazing. Like, let
>> Well, he took it personally. He's like,
"What? Yeah, I'm I have money. Like,
what do you what do you think I'm going
to do? Like, buy a pile of cocaine and
then drive my Lamborghini over it? Like,
I'll be fine." I think I love this.
Spending an hour just like looking at
Eddie Murphy on talk shows is love it.
Put a pin in that, Bill. All right, one
more
>> cuz we I mean I thought he was in here,
but he's not. Timothy Shalam. Let's just
do him anyway.
>> What happens to hundred-year-old Timothy
Shalamé? Well, I think this is a
projection on what his career is going
to be, but I I really like the bones of
what he's putting together and the
choices that he's making, and I think
he's learned the lessons from some of
these great people from the past. I
think his heart's in the right place,
and I think he gets it. So, I I would
assume he's headed that way. I I hope
so. I hope I hope he,
you know, I I would love to see him get
on All the President's Men or Three Days
of the Condor, too. But um it'll or a
Sting. I mean, he'd be great in
something like like A Sting.
>> He needs a Three Days of the Condor, I'm
just in trouble for an hour and a half
kind of movie. Like nothing. No great
expectations. But I mean, right now,
like with the with everything that's
going on in the world, like the the time
is ripe for people to start making
movies about this stuff. But I think
that like what you and I are talking
about right now is a kind of proof of I
mean it's kind of getting to this
question of like whether we even have
movie stars anymore, right?
>> I mean when did I write that piece for
Grantland? That was like 2011.
>> Yeah. Or like 2012. Yeah. I know the
one. It's the one where you basically
complain that people have got the wrong
idea about who a movie star is right
now. It was and one of the people I said
it on was Ryan Reynolds and how
Hollywood was trying to make Ryan
Reynolds a thing and none of the movies
were working and it's like I don't know
if he's a thing or not but you're
positioning him like he is and it hasn't
happened yet and then eventually it kind
of happened. There's a couple people now
that I think have a puncher chance
>> like Austin Butler's got something.
>> Okay. I did see caught stealing and
think yeah this is it. I think I think
he has he has something. Shalamé
obviously has whatever. I think MBJ has
it. Like he clearly has it.
>> Um he's a little
>> these people they need at bats. Right.
>> Right. But but we don't make movies like
that anymore. People aren't just they're
not cranking out two three a year
anymore. And you know the thing we have
not talked about with Redford that's
important to say here is that you know a
lot of what his legacy the like one of
the things that that in enshrines him
above the fold is that is the Sundance
piece of it, right? Yeah.
>> Um, you know, he through the Sundance
Film Festival is the figure head and and
visionary of an entire way of thinking
about American movie making that gives
many many we don't have a Michael B.
Jordan in the way that we know him
without Robert Redford as it turns out
because of the Sundance Film Festival.
Right. Right.
>> Ryan Cougler's Fruit Veil Station
premieres there. I just think that,
you know, in with his death, his death
is happening at a moment in which the
thing he in, you know, he shephered into
existence. Um, that is also kind of
teetering in some way.
>> Oh, I'm going the other way. It's coming
back.
>> Oh, speak to me.
>> Movies are back.
>> Okay. Say
>> movies are good.
>> I'm not saying that. Okay.
>> I'm pleased with movies.
Are you pulling my leg right now?
>> I am. I'm I think this is a good movie
year.
>> This is a good movie year, but this is
like saying, "Oh, well, the planet's
getting warmer, but but 2025, it it was
just below the hottest year on record."
Movies are back.
>> All right. But but but what do you mean
when you say that, though? I mean,
because we're definitely getting fewer
movies. movies like Weapons and Sinners
to me is like, you know, we're still
doing Conjuring and [__] like that and
people are going to go see those and it
it is what it is. But the fact that we
could have Weapons and Sinners and this
Paul Thomas Anderson movie coming out
and I don't know. I would just say I
mean if if the movies are back and
they're in good shape I would say movie
stardom is not and it needs some help
and one of the things it needs is more
great to mediocre screenwriting
>> to give these people something to do
right we'll pay to see it
>> you just have to give it to us and you
have to retrain us to want to see a
person like Robert Redford work you know
three times times a year. Two times a
year. If you build it, they will come.
Right. I mean, hopes
>> you're talking about incentivizing the
people who create that IP and TV is a
great incentivizer right now, right?
>> More than the movies you're saying.
>> Yeah. If you're Taylor Sheridan, you
know, he made what was that? Win River.
>> Yeah.
>> It's on Netflix, right?
>> JANE, GET AWAY FROM THE DOOR.
>> He did that. He started making TV shows.
Guess what? way more money in the TV
shows and he's going to use his his
voice, his vision, he's gonna steer it
toward like trying to create all these
different TV things. Brad Inglesby is
another one like he's does Mayor
Beasttown and Taft over actually making
a a movie.
>> The Easttown Police Department received
a call reporting a dead body in Creedum
Creek.
>> I invite these people to come back to
the movie theater.
>> Come back. Just make a quick one.
>> But the thing is just I will just end
here. Like the thing about the movie
star problem is like they don't get to
say who the movie stars are. We do.
And I don't think if you're not making
movies and taking risks on people being
in them and seeing what happens when we
get to vote with our money and our time,
then we'll never have the stars.
>> Well, it's like the William Goldman
quote. Nobody knows anything. Yeah.
Right. He has a whole chapter about how
Richard Gear got Pretty Woman because he
was like the 13th choice that that thing
one of the pieces he writes and he lists
all the terrible movies Richard Gear
made for like eight years when Richard
Gear was like if we were talking about
1980 Richard Gear now we'd be like well
Richard Gear there's one of our five
stars and then it just dies for him
literally for eight years and then all
of a sudden he gets Pretty Woman. It's
like Richard Gear's a star. Well he was
always a star. He was in the right
movie. I So you think just to send us
home, you you think that movie stardom
is in what kind of place right now? Like
like it's in good shape?
>> No,
>> I think movies are in good shape. I
don't think movie stardom is, but this
is I mean, as you know, I love to
compare the NBA to everything. This is
always the issue with the NBA. Like they
have LeBron and Curry and Durant headed
toward retirement, pretty close. And who
is the next wave of guys that are going
to come in? Who are the American stars
that are coming? and we don't have them
>> and you start holding your Anthony
Edwards is basically the
>> shalom. That's the
>> it's like man we need Anthony Edwards
and then
>> you know like Devin Booker becomes
Austin Butler and you start you just
start like trying to talk yourself into
different people but stars are stars you
know it when you see it. It's like
seeing a beautiful woman. It's like
seeing a great house. It's like anything
you just kind of know. And for whatever
reason we had a ton of them in the 70s
and the 80s and now we don't have as
many. I don't think the movies can be in
great shape without great stars. I
really don't.
>> I have faith. I'm a man of faith. I'm a
man of faith with NBA stars and
quarterbacks and movie stars that we're
always going to be able to keep coming
up with them. I guess the the difference
these days is are the people going to
put in the kind of work you need to
actually become a movie star.
>> Just thinking about what it is meant to
even
have these stars
>> is meaningful to me. And also thinking
about what it means to not have them,
especially when you just go back as many
people are probably going to be doing
over the next, you know, few months and
just like watching these Redford movies.
I mean, thanks to Robert Redford.
>> Brought a lot of joy.
>> Brought a lot of joy. A lot of lot of
face fanning, you know, a lot of like,
woo, thank the Lord. Wow. How did he do
that? I don't even know. My mom, my
mother, honest to God, she's not here
anymore, but when she was here, that was
her homie. She loved herself some Robert
Redford. And now, I mean, I'm assuming
that the two of them are up there like
just partying together,
>> just hanging out.
>> Bill Simmons,
thank you for doing this.
>> The pleasure was all mine.
>> Uh, back at you.
[Music]